.TH LLM-EMACS-HELPER.SH 1 "2025" "Version 0.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
llm-emacs-helper.sh \- Interface for LLM interaction from Emacs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B llm-emacs-helper.sh
\fIuse_case\fR [$\fIoptions\fR] $\fImajor_mode\fR $\fPrompts...\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B llm-emacs-helper.sh
is a Bash script designed to interface with large language models (LLMs) from within Emacs. It provides a bridge between Emacs and external LLM tools, enabling tasks such as code rewriting, summarization, question answering, and Lisp S-expression generation through standardized prompts.

The script accepts input via stdin and outputs results to stdout. For certain use cases like \fBrewrite\fR or \fBtodo\fR, the script automatically adds comments (based on the major mode) before each line of code in the response to preserve buffer structure.
.SH USE CASES
The script supports several distinct modes:
.IP \(bu 2
.B rewrite
Re-write text/code according to instructions; outputs with comment prefixes for structural preservation.
.IP \(bu 2
.B todo
Process "todo" items within the input buffer based on user instruction.
.IP \(bu 2
.B ask
Answer questions about the provided content.
.IP \(bu 2
.B write
Generate new content or a response according to instructions and context.
.IP \(bu 2
.B summarize
Summarize the input text.
.IP \(bu 2
.B complete
Complete code/text based on partial input and a prompt.
.IP \(bu 2
.B vibe-emacs
Generate an Emacs Lisp S-expression response; automatically strips markdown code fences (unfences) from the output.
.SH ARGUMENTS
The command follows this positional order:
.TP
.I use_case
One of: \fBrewrite\fR, \fBask\fR, \fBwrite\fR, \fBsummarize\fR, \fBcomplete\fR, \fBtodo\fR, or \fBvibe-emacs\fR.
.TP
.I major_mode
The Emacs major mode (e.g., \fBpython-mode\fR, \fBsh-mode\fR). This determines how the system prompt is formatted and which comment character is used for code preservation. 
.TP
.I prompt
A string containing instructions or questions sent to the LLM.

.SH OPTIONS
Note: To be parsed as functional arguments rather than text within the prompt, options must appear \fBbefore\fR the $\fImajor_mode\fR argument.
.TP
.B -n_predict <tokens>
Specify the number of tokens to predict (generation length).
.TP
.B --raw-input
Pass input directly to the LLM without any internal processing or sanitization.
.SH INPUT/OUTPUT
The script reads from $\fIstdin\fR and writes results to $\fIstdout\fR. 
If a use case requires code preservation (like \fBrewrite\fR), the output will be prefixed with comment characters specific to your major mode (e.g., \# for shell, // for C++).
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Ask a question about Python code (Note: 'python-mode' is mandatory)
cat script.py | ./llm-emacs-helper.sh ask python-mode "What does this function do?"

# Rewrite code with specific length constraints 
# (Option must come before the mode to be parsed correctly)
cat file.js | ./llm-emacs-helper.sh rewrite -n_predict 50 javascript-mode "Refactor for performance"

# Complete a line of code in Emacs Lisp style
echo "(defun test ()" | ./llm-emacs-helper.sh complete emacs-lisp-mode "complete this function definition"

# Use vibe-emacs to get clean Lisp S-expressions without markdown fences
cat context.txt | ./llm-emacs-helper.sh vibe-emacs lisp-mode "Generate a command to open a buffer"
.RE
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B DEBUG
If set, enables debug output showing all arguments and environment variables being passed to the underlying LLM script.
.TP
.B LLM_SH
The path to the primary execution script (defaults to \fI../scripts/llm.sh\fR).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success - Output was generated successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Failure - Invalid arguments, missing mode, or LLM returned empty result.
.IP \(bu 2
Help requested (\-h option) / Usage error.

.SH AUTHORS
Leigh L. Klotz, Jr.
